Ore Abundance in Minecraft Bedrock Edition
================

**By:** Breeze1074 (CrazyBreeze1074)  
**Credit to:** RufusAtticus for
[rbedrock](https://github.com/reedacartwright/rbedrock) support.

Minecraft necessarily leads to mining for resources, especially in the
early game or for players not inclined to building elaborate farms. This
makes it important to know where in the world is best for finding the
desired ores.

The answer to this question depends on if you are mining in peak biomes
or in other terrain. In peaks we can find coal, copper, emeralds, and
iron are distributed abundantly above sea level. However in other biomes
we find these ores are distributed at different intervals.

For example, in the image below I used data from a fresh minecraft world
using seed 1638586699. I then teleported to various locations with peak
biomes predicted by [Chunk
Base](https://www.chunkbase.com/apps/seed-map#1638586699). After loading
more than 1000 chunks of data, I then analyzed block densities by
y-value:  
![Ore density in peaks](images/oreDistributions_1638586699.png)

I accessed a very large amount of 1.18 data in seed 26874156 thanks to
the patrons of **[Prowl8413](https://www.youtube.com/c/Prowl8413)**. By
processing this data, I could track ore positions in more than 170,000
chunks. In contrast to above, most of this data resulted from non-peak
biomes. Looking specifically at regular ores we can see compare
distributions:  
![Regular ores only](images/regularOreViolins_1.18.2.03.png)

We can also compare distributions of composite ores (including deepslate
variants):  
![Composite ores](images/oreCompositeViolins_1.18.2.03.png)
